are you the quote high ranking campaign
official who received three or four
emails from George papadopolis during
this April May June time period during
the campaign it's a great question
Savannah and I don't know the answer to
it because as you know as the campaign
manager to the Trump campaign I was
receiving thousands of emails a day any
time COI did George papadopolis tell you
either verbally or in an email that
Russian officials had told him that they
had dirt on Hillary Clinton specifically
thousands of her emails do you ever
receive remember receiving that message
from George papadopolis I don't remember
that and the reason would be is because
George was such a low-level volunteer I
don't recall having much interaction
with him throughout the campaign I
wonder if Paul Manafort is still glad
that the kids and some others kicked
Corey Lewandowski out so man uh what
could run the campaign former Trump
campaign chairman Corey Lewandowski
moments ago on The Today Show
joining us now the host of MSNBC's Heart
Ball Chris Matthews his new book Bobby
Kennedy a raging spirit is out today how
exciting and Chris we want to talk about
this for a very long time but obviously
we have to start with a big dose of the
day yesterday what's your what's your
takeaway from yesterday what's the
what's the I think times which has been
unbelievable in reporting this that the
sidebar piece by Peter Baker today was
unbelievable it basically blew apart the
whole Trump defense Trump's line of
defense was there was no Russian effort
to influence our election well that wall
fell a long time ago with 17 us ages
they said yes they did and now saying
our campaign had nothing to deal with
colluding with them nothing to do with
flirtation and now we have his
son-in-law a long time ago now this guy
Papadopoulos I get the vent Trump no
wonder he was going nuts yesterday
morning and today he'll be again when he
rises where's the Times this amazing
picture this is the picture which will
drive Trump crazy the gortney artwork
the White House
the white house in the dark these three
guys all to get like Watergate the the
intrigue and the connection to all of it
and he's the boss he may not have spent
more than two hours at the most with
Papadopoulos but top of that pocket
Papadopoulos was representing him and
isn't it it's a big enterprise and guess
what this guy mower is going after the
enterprise he's going after the
institution of this presidency and it's
campaign all of it together look out
little things that sort of seem
different now as you watch this unfold
I've been hearing from insiders we've
been reading about this Trump has been
trying to get jared and Ivanka to move
back to New York get them round of there
he's all about the family and he wants
them out he wants them out of the fray
and you wonder now if he wants them out
of anybody wearing a wire several people
over the over the weekend that have all
told us that Donald Trump has made it
crystal clear to his daughter and
son-in-law it's time for them to come
back to New York this experience or a
long time have you have you been hearing
the same thing inside the window said it
out loud in medians in front of other
advisers including Jared and Ivanka and
people have been hearing this for quite
some time and part of the reason to
Micah's point here when you talk to two
people who were in the Clinton
administration and the Clinton White
House at the time when the
investigations were going on part of the
problem is that people inside the West
Wing felt like they couldn't trust each
other because they didn't know what each
person was going in saying when they
were being called before prosecutors and
you're in the exact same situation right
now where you have active White House
officials who are having to go before
prosecutors say what they knew during
the campaign the transition and
currently in the White House and people
don't know who to trust right now right
Wow and and this is apparently the the
pace the intensity of him telling them
it's time to leave has picked up will
the ship ships taking on water and he's
putting him on lifeboats
ten months into his presidency ten
months into his president say yeah so
Chris we wonder we could talk about this
for the next three hours I really want
to talk about this book because
obviously
this guy's always been a hero of mine
and he's been so powerful that you would
I can understand it because it's not
about ideology it's something else
he actually what I love about this guy
is and I've always loved about him is he
gave the same speeches to college
students that he gave elsewhere and also
another thing too and you you you
pointed this picture out can we see this
picture on the back now for anybody that
knows about Bobby Kennedy is dead this
is this is the train ride the long train
ride and on the train ride you had on
one side of the train tracks white
working-class Americans that would come
out and salute Bobby Kennedy salute
salute and I treated patriotic unity and
on the other side of the train tracks
you had poor black people that would
come out that lived on the other side of
the tracks saluting Bobby Kennedy and I
think one of the most powerful and
tragic images in American political
history is the image of that train
moving past you know and both sides
turning their backs and walking back
into their home's and there has not been
another politician since June of 1968
that could bring together those two
people back to the tracks to salute the
same person so I wrote the book and I
think the Democrats are guilty of
discarding white working-class people
you know the the whole Archie Bunker
thing let's make fun of working-class
ethnic people the the Carole King
concerts the whole elite thing you know
we're better we have rich donors let's
all talk about their social issues but
emphasizing the social issues all the
time to the detriment of the coalition
and I think that Bobby you know you want
Michael knows this but you know she's
string collecting and he and I had
similar their lives when you're a
Capitol policeman you learn a lot you
probably I know where you were one of
the guys that set a load of the cops you
probably don't you know do you know what
do you know what you learn yes you you
talk to members of Congress who are good
people and then you see how rude they
act to thank you laugh members or
elevator operators
and at that moment you decide they're
not good people
yeah well Bobby would every morning go
by the police stand you know in the
consulate then we were patronage police
we had a gun and everything in the
uniforms but we weren't exactly trained
street cops not exactly we were on a
case a murder case but he would go by
and Frank up any management's a friend
of mine he was the capital account -
back then and he said he'd come up to
the cops and he'd stop and say what are
you reading when he got done and he'd
say what's that playboy you got there
you know he was engaged and I think that
he FL told me about interviewing she
said he was born a Democrat and I mean
lower case Democrat connect with people
and I think that that's missing today
and I think there were contrast though
and by the way Alex I'm just gonna tell
you we're gonna go an extra second or so
I apologize to whoever I love being a
power
I love the remarkable thing about Bobby
though is he really he was a Democrat
with a lower D but he also was a
hardened conservative at birth he had
you know he always had that picture of
Hoover he loved Hoover well he was he
was a tough tough son of a bitch it's a
phrase that writer you phrased it an ad
and yet the most remarkable thing about
him talk about the evolution from
November 22nd 1963 okay through June the
end of his life that is the most
extraordinary couple changes in the you
know people do go through changes they
don't change completely but they changed
in different ways what he was a kid he
was sensitive summoned limb buildings in
front of the family said he's so
generous the old man who was not a nice
guy but Joe Kennedy said I don't know
where he got that from
you know generosity that's not what we
do here so it became a jockey played our
varsity football harboured he got his
Leonard he was in hanging out with the
jocks a tough guy got his brother
elected to the Senate what was on
McCarthy side then against McCarthy
wrote the resolution against McCarthy
then worked against the rackets but
you're right he had something changed
from the guy that was going at the
Giancana and taunting him in the
hearings I mean this is a killer this is
out Capone's
successor who have had people rub that
put him on meat hooks just like in on
the waterfront
that's the guy he would Taunton hearings
and he'd say I thought all the little
girls giggled Dan you know what and then
he became the guy who looked out for
American
dancy looked out for poor Appalachian
whites he looked out for and somebody a
family member explained this to me off
the record he said you know what
sometime in your life to this side
you've spent enough time chasing bad
guys and you realize they create their
own hell on earth so why not focus on
the victims and he just began to focus
on the people who in trouble
well the clips that we just showed of
the the train ride I was on that train
yeah train came out of the tunnel from
Penn Station up over the water as we
head toward New Jersey and on the right
hand side the first thing you saw was a
fire boat with white firefighters on the
fire boat holding the flag saluting the
train the next thing you saw was what
you're looking at now hordes legions of
people black white didn't matter Robert
Kennedy in the late fall of his life
when he was on the Senate nutrition
committee took a tour of the south and
of West Virginia about hunger in America
and you can see those shots of him posed
with people poor very very poor lacking
nutrition lacking food there were of all
colors
he was non-ideological in a sense in the
sense of his morality and he may be the
last public person who was on a national
stage who gave you that sense of
morality in him every time he spoke I
think one point when we're in the middle
of the Cuban Missile Crisis the scariest
thing we've ever been through and and
they're trying to decide with it Bobby's
first instinct was bottom the hell out
of them he was almost with Curtis LeMay
let's go get those SOPs and then he
thought wait we're just going to kill a
lot of Cubans we're gonna kill thousands
of people
we're gonna kill some Russians and we're
not going to be the Japanese here I'm
not gonna be the Japanese I'm not gonna
have a sneak attack and anyone gave that
speech to LeMay and the rest of these
tough get hawks and they said you know
they're already worried about Berlin and
what the Russians would do if we moved
on Cuba they said well yeah who's Jack
this Center men to do that and I think
that moral compass is going today I mean
if Trump says whenever Trump says
something about evil I go what do you
know about good and evil what do you
think
like that you know and I think the other
thing is and I go back to this kid white
people every time we all grew up with
race being the issue of north-south
everybody's always in I grew up in
Philly it was the political issue and
every time you have a dissent discussion
of what I call the San Andreas Fault of
this country you can decide whether
you're gonna tonight people are you
gonna divide them the easiest thing to
do is divide them
you know black lies versus police
whatever there's always a great divide
line you can get on one side of it blow
your trumpet and it works politically
let's face it and Bobbie every time said
Rooney was trying to desegregate
Alabama tried desegregate Ole Miss he
always tried to do it this soft way he
always tried to work it through the
governor try to avoid violence and you
know I think he wanted to bring peace
between whites and blacks and today
politicians to choose sides and so I
said more trouble hold that thought much
more with Chris Matthews after a quick
break we're back speaking with Chris
Matthews about today with the new book
Bobby Kennedy a raging spirit so is a
little bit but what can the modern
Democratic Party learn from Bobby
Kennedy fifty years after his death
having just lost a presidential election
to Donald Trump having lost more than a
thousand is under Barack Obama what do
they do the Democratic Party in our
country began with the Irish Italian
Polish Jewish working-class people it
started with black people - and they
were all together it was economic
interest unions working wages Garrigan a
good job
Democrats focused on social issues they
divided the coldest it just happened it
just happened there's nothing wrong with
it but it happened they've got to
finally get past the social issues back
that cannot make issues that unite I
think I can I talk to quickly about this
as well I've told this story once or
twice before I don't think I've told in
you that that you know back in my first
term the afl-cio spent a couple hundred
million dollars I think trying to beat
the freshman Republican that had been
swept in so I got in the campaign trail
union bosses union thugs union this
union that works and I felt like yeah
and and I had to get my phone fixed
guy comes in fixes my phone and he
starts to leave he turns out he goes you
mind if I talk to you for a second
congressman I go yes sir fine
we all vote for you we all vote for you
shut up about the unions because we all
vote for you the guys you know tell us
to vote against you we don't be quiet
and I said then I thought I probably
should just shut up dad but that goes to
your point where you've got again Union
union membership disconnected from
Democratic leaders and it's been that
way for twenty thirty years and I think
I think the division on social issues
and on just Street issues of you know
Bobby was in a force of the law at the
same time the biggest champion of
minorities and put that together in your
head not only was a tough prosecutor he
believed in law and order when he saw
the riding after the kink the king of
killing he hated it he said these that
this is bad stuff
burning bellies you know liberals don't
come out and say that you got to say you
got to believe in law and justice go
hand in hand you go to use law to
desegregate the schools use law to go
after the bed gather the mobsters and
use law to protect people in the streets
and you got to build that case instead
of take inside he goes back to the
division in our country there's noise
you take one side against the other
you're part of the problem so in terms
of this topic and the problem the
Democratic Party has today talk to us
about April 1968 Gary Indiana Robert
Kennedy black mayor okay dick catcher
here here he goes
Bobby's trying to hold the working-class
Polish people all kinds of ethnic people
in Gary Indiana so what's he do he gets
in an open car he's got Tony Zale next
to him the former middleweight champ
they got to beat rocky Graziani and
somebody up there likes me you know this
guy's that local here the Man of Steel
they close because it's a steel tab he
puts the white ethnic on one side of it
Richard Hatch you're the first
african-american mayor and the other
side and they ride through town he
wanted to symbolize these with both
crowds he wanted to you got to keep
saying it over and over again I'm with
both sides who are united in this thing
where we have the same interests and I
think he really tried to do it and that
was anything he did really well in that
race and of course he tried to do it and
he got killed you know and I think that
the the guy really had a goal in mind he
wanted to be the great unifier we
sometimes look back in on history with a
gauzy lens but this
really does feel like a different era
and I'm curious if research for this
book did you come away optimistic or
pessimistic whether we can recapture it
Oh save it
I mean Bill Clinton once said he was a
60 sky and Bill once said if you have a
good memory of the 60s you're probably a
progressive you have a bad memory are
probably conservative I think it's
different I think he got both memories
you remember King being killed Kennedy
being killed both Kennedys and yet this
guy seems to be the spirit that survives
is they talk to most people they say the
thing the Kennedy I like most the one I
connected with the spirit of that we can
do it together we can make it work this
picture with the black kids and with the
white working people that thing the guys
always in the Pisco with Wayne Owens was
like this Paul Corbett him he was that's
okay there guys and I met who worked
with Bobby Kennedy and the other thing
about it and I'm gonna leave with this
because I was both a cop and I was a
stayer from the hill he treated staffers
like his people as equals Frank
mankiewicz at Guttman and Corbin they
were they all called him Bob they were
equal socially he wasn't some aristocrat
and and I think I think on a human level
I got back to the fact he sent a load of
the cops in the morning they grabbed me
because so many Ribit cops said the
Fulbright's and those elite snooty guys
would walk around yes I liked everyone
but no one in particular all these
people and Bobby you know you got to
start with the person in front of you
are gonna be a liberal that's what I
like tip of course because tip did like
the guy in front of them or the person
that needed help and I think sure
liberalism says god I think this is
gonna remind a lot of people during
these dreary times that America is
better than this than what we have and
it can be again the book is Bobby and a
raging spirit Chris Matthews host of
hardball 7:00 o'clock Eastern Time on
MSNBC thank you the fact that you folks
well I watch everybody by the way so
make it last night do we have to a TV is
your opening
I love your opening line III may examine
my claw hammer they say what's first you
know I've said I've had like Eastern
Promises I am keep coming out with a new
permutation
I can't Russia I mean what was your
favorite wheel well one one you did I
forget what it was maybe it was like the
access live where tapes where you were
just like there's a five year old kid I
heard about who watches my show because
he thinks this show really is let's play
hardball really good that's what really
good yeah but cheers but everybody has
to stop yes she is
at seven o'clock to hear what you're
gonna say did I ever tell you start
about your father
we're ready to go to war over over
Afghanistan and a big fight and I came
in with my tux on cause we're all going
to depress dinner you guys have a
hundred so as the president right and
there's I felt an equal with he's a big
because he's got his tux on I got my tux
on I go to see the national security god
I'm just a speechwriter and I go to see
him and I go and I said can you approve
this speech you know mister Brzezinski
can you prove this here is missus we're
calling them barbarians you're calling a
barbarians and you've the Russian so you
want me to prove this right now he
always makes us think yeah Julie pace
thank you as well because Matthews thank
you Chris thank you thank you up next
yeah incredible incredible timing
NBC News was first to uncover the extent
of Paul man affords money trail in
Cyprus chief foreign correspondent
Richard Engel who helped bring the story
to light in March joins us next on
Morning Joe thanks for checking out
MSNBC on YouTube and make sure you
subscribe to stay up-to-date on the
day's biggest stories and you can click
on any of the videos around us to watch
more four Morning Joe and MSNBC thanks
so much for watching